why you should not start vlogging I
understand it's probably a confusing
title for a four-part series titled how
to vlog but I'm going to explain a
little bit later in the video this is
been a very exciting period boosters in
part one what camera should you buy what
editing software should you use I
brought me through Adobe Premiere CC how
do you edit how do you form a story and
I am kicking off the last episode with
you have your story how do you export it
what are my export settings in my editor
but also what platform is right for you
should you be posting to youtube the
meal Facebook the Graham and then once
we wrap up the technical side of things
I'm going to share a little insight into
beauty blog do you have your video
edited in your timeline now you need to
export it to get it to your desktop get
it to your specified folder set your in
and out points on your timeline just was
telling Premiere I only want this
section export it so if you have
something later in the timeline you can
specify the part that you only want
exported once you get to this window it
looks a little bit intimidating but
that's why I'm here I'm going to bring
you through it I like to break down
exports into two different types one you
are either posting to the web the final
destination will be YouTube Facebook
Instagram anything on the Internet the
second type of video is for something in
real life maybe you're projecting a
video on a screen you're premiering
something in real life you are playing
it from a computer to people's eyeballs
the first circumstance online the
internet you want to export h.264 the
second instance when you are projecting
or showing a video somewhere in the
physical IRL you want to export ProRes
if you're editing on a Mac Perez is the
highest quality you can export the
integrity of the video will be most like
what it looks like inside premiere
however when you export ProRes and then
upload it to the internet the internet
destroys the file the pro res preset is
something you have to actually download
from the internet where you can put it
straight into premiere so you will see
it in the drop down menu when you press
QuickTime
a prebend I would definitely say it's
the highest quality export you can
possibly get but remember only choose it
when you are showing this video directly
on your computer or some type of screen
the first webcam which is the most
common is you're putting this video on
the internet you want to choose the
preset h.264 now this is so key this
next part that I tell you Adobe Premiere
CC has already done most of the work for
you all you have to do is press h.264
click on the drop down menu below and
choose whatever your final destination
is my most common platform is youtube so
I use the preset YouTube 1080p and I
don't change any of the settings of
course you can always adjust the bitrate
for higher quality or lower quality
trying to get the size of the file
shrunken down but when posting strictly
to youtube Premiere has done all the
work for you and it's saying this is the
exact file that YouTube once so once you
upload it to YouTube YouTube is not
going to compress that file again on
there it's going to be the best possible
quality when uploading to YouTube
[Music]
yes ma'am we have gotten this far we
have shot
edit export it but now what platform
should you use you're probably most
curious about YouTube because you're
watching this video on the youtubes but
maybe another platform would be right
for you in this day and age you should
probably do them all but that's end of a
practical thing
YouTube will forever be the king of
searchable content that means it's a
stuff you are making you know people are
going to be searching for hands down
what are on YouTube and you're going to
get organic clicks you can also play to
the YouTube algorithm of course YouTube
is supersaturated right now there's so
many people creating amazing things
however if you can make some good tough
cool different quirky but relevant to
what other people are making videos
there's a chance you might slide into
the YouTube algorithm and get served up
to people watching the YouTube in
comparison to the next platform I'm
going to talk about Vimeo it definitely
has a more familiar look people are
fully aware of how to navigate YouTube
opposed to something that's a little bit
more foreign like Vimeo YouTube is super
social fantastic for searchable content
and even though it is super saturated
there is still that chance that you can
grow on the platform given you get into
the groove of what everyone else is
doing but also having your new unique
unique unique wow I can I say that word
but also having your unique spin on
things
Vimeo Vimeo Bing I think Vimeo is so
irrelevant
of course I'm saying that because I'm a
youtuber but it makes me sad when people
just post a video to let their videos
dies I believe there should only be one
reason that you post a video that is you
want to go as a more traditional
filmmaking route there are a lot of
people in the traditional filmmaking
scene on there and being a Vimeo staff
pic is still a huge deal your video gets
that recognition that means something in
the real world and it's awesome their
model for selling movies and
documentaries is also fantastic so if
you have something that you want to do
the pay on demand Ralph's choose Vimeo
is actually awesome I'm pretty sure
YouTube has that option but Vimeo is
definitely known for executing it
better besides a couple of reasons I
truly think the people the people's
attention are way more on YouTube all
right almost done with this this
platform top Instagram super important
right now Instagram is on fire right now
you should be posting two stories but
also Instagram video is becoming its own
genre you have seen the Instagram
comedians I mean they'll post a
30-second 60 second terrible video and a
shareability of Instagram and the
tagging of people and the likes means
for page they will get so many views and
they it's just a constant share fest and
so there is something with Instagram
that is super interesting right now in
terms of that shareability of it and you
getting served up in the explore page
and new eyes don't sleep on Instagram
and then there's Facebook I hate
Facebook but hey just because I
personally hate Facebook doesn't mean
that the market is what the market is
the market is people are on Facebook
eyes are on Facebook I had a personal
Facebook in over a year I think my life
is better for it however you know when
you just roll into Facebook and just the
video will automatically roll and you'll
just like watch a silent video for a
minute and you're like whoa what the
heck am i doing like video works on
Facebook however the biggest thing about
that is you have to pay for engagement
but if you're making those like viral
waiting to happen videos and you just
care about attention Facebook is where
it's at people love to share on there
whether it's pranks or the oh my gosh
this is such an inspirational video or
funny things or just you know that super
shareable type video type thing it works
on Facebook and if you have a skill to
strategically push your videos and push
your pictures with a little bit of ad
money behind it that's when you're going
to thrive are you not happy time or
capacity to really put in the work that
requires to thrive on Facebook I think
more of my entrepreneurial interview
things would work great I would put
subtitles maybe some inspirational music
below the talking and how
you know like big bold words and stuff
that would be great I just don't have
the time I don't want to put money into
the beef that is Facebook but don't play
it off just because you hate the
platform maybe like myself it is still
so important when it comes to video well
I have been talking a lot so if you have
made it to this part of the video
congratulations thank you thank you it
means a lot make sure to hit that
subscribe button down below if you like
what you hear why should you not vlog
why should you blog why should you not
want I will give you three reasons why
you should blog and then I'll tell you
why you shouldn't some reasons why you
should number one I think it is great
for people who already have audiences to
keep that connection within a really
show than behind the scenes of their
life to grow that bond stronger I think
that's what my blogs do for that Picchu
fan and it's also a fun creative outlet
for me
number two is because you want to
document you are doing something in your
life that you know you want to look back
on and say that was a joke time I want
to be able to show the process maybe
you're going through a job transition a
relationship type thing a move to a
different exciting city and you want to
document this process go for it that is
super cool flooding is so good for that
and I'm sure your family and friends
would really appreciate it to keep up
with you
number three is you're just getting into
video and a lot of the things that you
watch our blog so that's what you know
and you want to practice you want to do
something consistently that makes you
better at video but also get you in the
groove of creating something every week
or every day why you should not vlog if
your main goal is to grow a social
following but what are you talking about
Sarah if you want to make this internet
thing a thing and you're kind of
starting from ground zero you want to
create the stuff that gets you stoked
that gets you excited that gives you
credibility as a filmmaker as a cook as
H sower whatever you're doing on this
platform on YouTube or whatever you want
to do something that gets people excited
that is shareable that has the potential
to go viral that give you credibility to
other creators to collaborate with you
so I'm saying take the time to make
quality in the
getting nothing that vlogs take away
from the quality but pumping out seven
decent blogs a week isn't as good of
making one video a week that you are
super proud of that you can then use to
leverage for collaborations or leverage
to a company to get a job the only
blogging that I did in the beginning of
YouTube was when I went to Iceland or I
went to exciting travel places I would
mix in my fun way of editing with the
kind of blogging style and I enjoyed it
and I kind of built up my own style of
videos and it made this repertoire this
portfolio of video work you would say
that I could then go and show other
people and so once I did get a bigger
audience on YouTube and maybe I did
start vlogging more people could look at
my back catalogue of videos and so wow
you've done some docu-series you've done
some really cool things that go far
beyond vlogging that then blended
through my credibility as a video maker
as a internet so really gauge what your
purpose is when making videos it is to
get clients if it's to build your social
following if it's to premiere something
on the big screen of Tribeca or can
focus on bigger projects focus on a
stuff that you're really going to be
proud of and a content that's going to
spread out beyond your inner circle of
people because if you post videos that
are what I had for lunch what a bad day
I'm so happy if you're kind of posting
the very general vlog titled every
single day it's going to be very hard to
reach beyond your audience this way a
little bit longer than I wanted it to
but I just have a lot of things to say
make sure to check out how to vlog one
through three if you're stoked on this
series you have a family or friend or
audio/video teachers that is teaching
this stuff
send us the link let's educate the
masses on how to make videos let me know
if you like this video and if it helps
you hit that subscribe button down below
if you're new around here come to the
peachy fan I post videos every Monday
through Friday and thanks for hanging
out with me stay peachy okay bye
you